# 2.2. Reversal potential and Nernst Equation

This lesson aims to answer the question **"How does the resting potential between inside & outside arise ?"**. It will lead to the Nernst equation.

In the cell membrane, ion pumps drive $Na^{+}$ from the inside to the outside and drive $K^{+}$ from the outside to the inside. This is due to the fact that density decreases when the energy increases. As for the air molecules that are fewer on the top of the mountain than on the valley because of the high gravity force at high altitude, positive ion molecules tend to be less dense when the potential is high (for example, potential is high for $Na^{+}$ on the outside of the cell because there is less $Na^{+}$ density). Thus the ion pumps create concentration difference between the inside & the outside of the cell.

By developing the Boltzmann equation to understand the difference of potential in the inside & the outside of the cell, we arrive at the Nernst Equation. We understand that the difference of concentration for $Na^{+}$ leads to a voltage difference.

In summary,
- The concentration difference describes a voltage difference, known as the reversal potential. And the voltage difference is described by the Nernst Equation.
- There are more $Na^{+}$ outside the cell than there are inside and inverse for $K^{+}$.
- The total equilibrium potential is a compromise between every reversal potentials for each ion types.
- Voltage difference is described by the Nernst equation and is specific for each ion type.
- The reversal potential is the potential at which the ion type would be at equilibrium.