# 2.3. Hudgkin-Huxley Model

This lesson aims to describe the Hudgkin-Huxley model.

## Biophysic of the membrane
There are two types of ion-channels in the neurons : potassion $K$ and sodium $Na$ ion channels. When a channel is closed, the resistance is high, which prevents the ion from passing through the membrane. When the channel is open, the resistance is low (but there is still a resistance !), which allows the ions to pass through. Naturally, there is a sort of "leak channel" in addition to the sodium and potassium ones.

## Membrane & ion channels as electrical circuit
The ion channels (leak, sodium and potassium) can be described in an electrical circuit as resistances (one resistance for each channel). For potassium and sodium channels, the resistance changes depending on the state of the channel (open or closed). This is the real difficulty here.

Many mathematical derivations later, we can define several things :
- The interaction of ion channel resistance is a simple equation but the difficulty comes from the fact that Ion channels have a changing resistance
- H&H define gating variables $n$, $m$ and $h$ that describe the state of the ion channel (open/close).
  - $n$ is the gating variable for potassium channel
  - $m$ and $h$ are the gating variables for sodium channel.
  - The leak channel has a constant resistance.
- Each gating variable is described by a non linear differential equation.
- There is, in consequence, 4 non-lin diff equations
  - The first is for the voltage
  - The three other equations are the non linear diff equations to obtain $n$, $m$ and $h$, the gating variables.

H&H powerful because we can describe the influence of an ion channel by a first order diff equation.